# Resume summarization and classification using NLP and OpenAI.

## Introduction
This repository contains a Python application for resume summarization and classification. It leverages Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques and OpenAI models to extract key information from resumes and provide a concise summary. Additionally, it performs classification to categorize resumes based on job descriptions.

### Instructions
To use the application, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the Repository: Clone the repository by executing the following command:

   git clone https://github.com/Sreeja-website/Resume-Summarization-and-Classification.git

2. Install Dependencies: Install the required dependencies by running the following command:

    pip install -r requirements.txt
   
3. Run the Application: Start the Python application by running the following command:

Copy code
python app.py
Register and Login: Register for an account with the necessary details. Once registered, log in to access the application.

Upload Job Description and Resumes: Upload the job description file and a folder containing all the resumes you want to process.

Submit for Classification: Click on the "Submit" button to initiate the classification process. The application will categorize the resumes based on the job description.

Review Classification Results: Once the classification is complete, you will receive the classification results. Select the desired files for further processing.

Resume Summarization: Proceed with the summarization process on the selected files. The application will generate concise summaries for the resumes.

View Summaries: You can now view the detailed summaries generated by the application.



